Hollywood is very much a factory town
and the widget that we make is
entertainment.
Across the board everyone is creative
from the directors to the writers to
craft service. Everyone has a talent.
Some people come out here
sort of on accident and find a place
inside of the circus and I think that
some people are kind of called.
Pilot season, upfronts, awards
campaigns, Hollywood moves in cycles.
But now the cycles have slowed a lot.
It's a reset and no one knows where the
new baseline is.
If you spoke to the average worker in
Hollywood, you'd hear existential dread.
You've seen a pretty dramatic reduction
in output, a lot of layoffs, fewer jobs.
This has been a dark period.
Los Angeles has visibly turned into what
I would call a ghost town.
Employment in California's motion
picture industries peaked in 2016 but
was decimated by the pandemic and
despite a surge in streaming, the actors
and writers strikes meant a massive loss
of jobs that show no sign of coming
back.
Big tech disruption, mega mergers and
the looming threat of AI has left
Hollywood in shambles. What do you do?
Can't help these people? Are you insane?
I never thought this crap would happen
in my lifetime. We're just in this
inflection point right now where
everything's converging. Not great
economics, bad business models,
audiences that are fragmented.
>> Have they forgotten what a star looks
like?
I was just at a meeting on one of the
lots
and to not be dodging around forklifts
is astounding
the lack of production that's going on
right now in Los Angeles.
So here we are. We're inside of
an empty sound stage, actually one of
the larger ones.
As you can see, production has left
California.
The numbers tell the story.
Have a look at total LA shoot days for
2024.
Now look at 2025. It's down over 16%.
Compare this to 2016 when shoot days
were at their recent peak.
Some of it has gone to other states but
the majority of it has gone outside of
the US to places like the UK, London,
places like Australia, New Zealand and
other countries with more aggressive tax
incentives.
Goldman Sachs foreclosed on Radford
Studios, a very famous film studio in
Los Angeles because it just wasn't
making the payments on its debt.
This is the story across the industry
and ultimately the buck stops at the box
office. The movie business is really in
a long-term stagnation, at least in
terms of cinemas. People aren't going
out as much to the movies. The average
American now goes to fewer than four
movies a year. Just a decade ago, I
think that was closer to five. Ticket
sales were doing pretty good until once
again
COVID.
And they never fully recovered,
remaining nearly $3.5 billion
lower than 2018.
Sure, people don't leave the house
anymore but there's binge watching.
That's got to be a bonanza, right?
This was an industry that had a
decade-long
boom fueled by the arrival of streaming
and the growth of of new streaming
services, Netflix, Hulu and Amazon
followed by Disney and Paramount Plus
and HBO Max. The idea then was like,
let's spend as much money as possible on
movies and TV shows
so we can get as many customers and win
this streaming battle.
That came to a crashing halt in 2022.
Everyone was losing billions of dollars
and then in 2023, you saw the strikes by
actors and writers.
And that was really a turning point
because the studios figured out they
could get by with a whole lot less.
So they cut staff, they cut their
spending on movies and TV shows.
Turned bad shape.
Yes, Hollywood is very fancy
celebrities. There's a lot of very
wealthy people who are very fabulous but
the people that I know, they are
writers, they are producers, they're
directors, they're grips and
electricians and they are trying to pay
rent and they're trying to keep food on
the table.
Actually brought my own slate so
um
Oh. There.
Mark, let's take
In the last 25 years I've done
production sound for everything from
broadcast news to feature films. Check,
check, check. Emile Studios to Whiplash
for best
Thanks, Mike and Dave. I won the BAFTA
and the Oscar for best sound mixing for
Whiplash.
Compared to the heyday, things have
gotten pretty bad.
In 2025, I had 10 union days of work.
You could say that I'm a canary in a
coal mine because when sound people
aren't working, it means that nobody's
working.
I'm a writer for television and movies.
It's been very, very, very difficult.
The industry you worked in changed
fundamentally overnight.
I've had to take a demotion and go back
to working as an assistant, the level
that I was at before I became a staff
writer.
I went from being at the top of my
career and then all of sudden the rug
was pulled right out from underneath,
not just me but everyone I know and it's
it's heartbreaking.
I've had to take a lot of step backs.
I work part-time at World Market.
You know, I got a seasonal job there
during Christmas and thank God they
decided to keep me.
A lot of people are digging into their
retirement savings. We have to live.
Amidst this ominous lack of work, major
studios have been trending towards mega
mergers for their survival which
needless to say isn't helping. There's
been one big deal after another.
The companies that have done the big
deals have generally suffered from a
profitability perspective but also just
from a stock price perspective. And
people are really worried about too much
consolidation.
Well, in my point of view I lose a
buyer. You look at Netflix, you look at
Warner Brothers, you look at Paramount,
you look at Fox. They're all buyers.
While Warner Brothers can still run as
Warner Brothers always ran,
I'm losing places that I can take
content to. And then of course you have
job loss as well.
Then you have studios restructuring.
It's a never-changing cycle.
What's eating you?
There's little doubt that the culprit
behind all this change is tech.
You have a camera in your pocket with a
phone. All this editing software is
cheaper than it used to be.
And AI should only accelerate this
because it's just going to be much
easier for people to make stuff.
There's more content being produced and
released than ever before. We're all
exhausted by it and that puts a
tremendous amount of power in the
handful of platforms that have
audiences. This is a profound period of
change in an industry. It's not unlike
maybe what you know, newspapers have
been through,
radio.
Tech comes in and they break these
existing models that have worked for,
you know, decades.
Happened with Airbnb. It's happened with
Uber.
Money is flowing upward to a very
concentrated point at the top. Everybody
in the ecosystem from the end user to
the provider ends up suffering.
And that's what happened in Hollywood.
You're under the age of 18 years old,
the majority of what you watch is on
TikTok and YouTube.
YouTube owns over 13% of connected TV
audience which has grown year over year
significantly.
Let's have a closer look at the data.
Here's Nielsen's numbers for how much TV
time YouTube has been grabbing from the
streamers between 2022 and 2025.
Movies are no longer the center of
Western culture the way that they once
were. I think that that's pretty evident
and apparent in a lot of consumer
behavior.
The days of the A-list star system that
carried the box office isn't tracking
anymore. There's no longer like the
gatekeepers of Hollywood.
That's the beauty of the technology that
we're in right now is like it kind of
opened the aperture to allow anyone to
create. Because some of those
storytellers are so good, they're
getting a lot of attention on YouTube.
The good thing is you can publish
anything you want. The bad thing is
you're not being compensated for it. It
is a massive grind in order to monetize.
For every Mr. Beast that's out there
really crushing it, there's a million
other creators that are never being
seen.
>> It's very lean in terms of how all these
creators are are actually getting stuff
done. Reset.
Hey!
Stop playing hero, nurse. She's not even
on staff here.
One camera operator, one editor, maybe a
production manager. There's no like
sound person, there's no crew.
And I think it's just it's been a hard
transition.
And even these scaled-down productions
could go the way of the dodo.
AI's ever-evolving image creation is
poised to remove the need for sets,
cameras, crews, even writers and actors.
There is no way but forward.
I know a few managers that are that are
driving Uber.
I've been struggling with a plan, to be
honest.
Do I feel like this is the end of my
career as an editor? I don't know.
There is some light at the end of the
tunnel.
And that is content remains king.
Even though big franchises still
dominate worldwide revenue, smaller
budget films are hitting a sweet spot
and finding big audiences. The heart of
the business will always be
storytelling. So, it's a struggle for
the people who depend on these big
budget movies.
But really an opportunity for people who
are creative and get creative about the
tools they use.
I believe that independent film is the
beating heart of Hollywood. People are
creating and they're making things and
there's movement. I am getting more
business inquiries than I can keep up
with right now. And to me, that
indicates that people have a fire inside
of them. They're not willing to let the
business die. The shift isn't
theoretical. Companies like A24, valued
at $3.5 billion,
have demonstrated that disciplined
budgets and bold storytelling can
outperform the old studio playbook,
turning indie films into box office wins
and cultural touchstones.
But studios are still doubling down on
brand safety.
In 2024, the top 10 highest grossing
films were all franchises. 2025 saw even
more expansion into pre-existing IP.
If indies are going to make a dent, it's
going to be because audiences demand it.
We need to make less Marvel movies. We
need to make more great movies, great
stories.
It's going to be smaller. I think it's
going to remain a scrappy industry where
people who are really passionate about
it are going to continue to create
opportunities for themselves. People are
still reading. People are still
auctioning. People are still taking in
content.
As long as we keep doing our job and are
given the opportunities to create at a
high level, I do think that it will
still hold an important place in culture
in the long run.